## Monopoly

Only a single firm exists. Usually firms and not consumers determine the price, owing to the lack of coordination possible between the large number of consumers.

#### Causes of monopoly

- Technical barriers. (hydroelectric power)

- Legal barriers. (defense productions)



### Markup

Proportional percentage of the price that is above the marginal cost. 

At equilibrium $MC=MR$. 

And,
$$
P\left(1+\frac{1}{e_{p}}\right) = MC\\
P+\frac{P}{e_{p}} = MC\\
\frac{P-MC}{P} = -\frac{1}{e_{P}}
$$
The above quantity is called markup. Markup is inversely proportional to price elasticity. 

Marginal cost is always positive, but profit is maximised at MC=MR. Thus, the monopolist sets price where marginal revenue is positive, and thus price is elastic. 

### Monopoly price and output

> Example

Let demand curve be $q=a-b\cdot p$  and cost be $C=c+d\cdot q^2$

Total revenue is TR is,
$$
\text{TR} = p\cdot q\\
=\frac{a-q}{b}\cdot q
\\=\frac{aq-q^2}{b}
$$
The marginal revenue MR is,
$$
\text{MR} = \frac{d(\text{TR})}{dq}\\ = \frac{1}{b}(a-2q)
$$
Total cost is 
$$
C=c+dq^2\\
\text{MC} = \frac{dC}{dq}=2dq
$$
For maximising profit, $MC=MR$. Solving, we get $q$. Plug it back in the price-quantity equation to get $p$.  



> Example

Let a monopolist have constant marginal cost, $MC: d$. The cost is then $d\cdot q$.  

Let inverse demand function (price as a function of quantity) be $p=a-b\cdot q$

Then 
$$
TR=q(a-bq)\\=aq-bq^2
\\
MR=a-2bq\\
MC=d
$$
When 
$$
MC=MC\\
a-2bq=d\\
q^*=\frac{a-d}{2b}\\
p^*=a-b\left(\frac{a-d}{2b}\right) = \frac{a+d}{2}
$$
If cost is increased, what percentage of the cost will be passed on to the consumer? This is given by,
$$
\frac{dp^*}{d(\text{MC})}=\frac{\delta p^*}{\delta d}=\frac{1}{2}
$$
Thus, half the cost will be passed on to the consumer. 

