### Aggregate consumption 

Production-income are identical. Income generates demand for production. Production generates income.
$$
Z = C + I + G
$$
Assume a closed economy. No export. No import.

$Y_d$ is the disposable income.

$C$ is the consumption.

$T$ is the taxes.
$$
C = C(Y_d)\\
= C(Y-Tx)\\
= C_0+C_1(Y-Tx)
$$
Consumption can be assumed to increase linearly with increase in disposable income.  The slope $\tan\theta$ is called $c_1$. 

#### Investment

Assume that investment is exogenous for simplicity. That is, we do not have an investment function. 

Government expenditure or spending $G$. Assume exogenous also. 

$G$, $Tx$ combined, are called *fiscal policy instruments*. (also subsidy)

### Determination of equilibrium output

Aggregate demand,
$$
Z = C+I+G\\=C_0+C_1(Y-Tx)+I+G
$$
Consider the goods market. 

Equilibrium condition is, $Z=Y$. Demand is met by production. In equilibrium, $Y$ (production) equals demand $Z$. Demand in turn depends on income, which is itself equal to production. 
$$
Y = C_0+C_1(Y-Tx) + I +G\\
Y = C_0+C_1Y-C_1Tx+I+G\\
(1-C_1)Y = C_0-C_1Tx+I+G\\
Y = \frac{1}{1-C_1}\left[C-C_1Tx+I+G\right]
$$
$C_1$ is the *marginal propensity to consume*. Since $C_1$ lies between 0 and 1, $1/(1-C_1)>1$. 

$C_0+I+G$ is positive, while $C_1Tx$ is negative. If the former is greater than the absolute value of the latter, then the combined term is positive. Else negative. 

$C_0+I+G-C_1Tx$. Assume government has balanced budget (_i.e_: $G=Tx$). Then, $G-C_1Tx>0$. 

When the government incurs a budget deficit. That is, $G>Tx$. Then, $G-Tx>0$ and thus $G-C_1Tx>0$. 

Budget surplus, means $G<Tx$. 

The first term $1/(1-C_1)$ is called multiplier. Because it magnifies the initial shock. 

Plots.

Income on the x axis (which is equal to production) and production on the y axis and Z as well on the y axis. The intersection of the two curves (one of them 45 degrees), is the equilibrium point. 

 If propensity to consume increases, say from 0.6 to 0.7, the multiplier will increase. Higher $C_1$, higher the multiplier. 

When expenditure increases, it immediately generates an increase in aggregate demand. When demand in creases firms produce more, producing additional income. This income increases the aggregate demand. 

















